for the art of actually making an omelet
and the first thing you do is you have
your heat turn to medium put the pan on
without anything in it to just warm
through while that's happening you see
to the eggs and that sized pan it's a
six inch pan will make either a three
egg or a two egg omelet today we're
going to make a two egg omelet and we'll
just crack the eggs into the jug here
and first of all I'm going to give them
some seasoning a freshly milled pepper
and salt and then the first lesson in
the art of the omelet is not to overbeat
the eggs I think people go in too
vigorously and what you need to do is
just take a fork and just very very
gently combine the yolks with the whites
with gentle whisking movements like this
and I think you'll find if you beat it
gently whisk it gently like that and
just think of the word combine you'll
have a much lighter omelet that if you
go in too vigorously now what are we
going to cook the omelet with I have
found over the years and all the tests
that I've done that the best is half a
teaspoon of olive oil just going in and
then 1/2 a teaspoon of butter so you
actually get a little bit of butter
flavor then turn the heat up really high
and when I first made an omelet on
television 25 years ago I can remember
what I said I said heat it up hotter to
there and I haven't actually changed my
mind and you can see it's quite smoky
now that's really quite hot in go the
eggs
the next thing you do is you wait until
you get it's about five seconds and you
get a thrill around the edge like that
you can see the little thrill count to
five and then you go in with a
tablespoon and you start to slide the
egg into the center the whole thing is
really really quick just keep tucking
the pan like that and sliding all the
liquid a so that it can come in contact
with the heat and gently cook the omelet
and then it's important to take it off
the heat while you've still got some
liquid egg there because it's very
important that the omelet isn't dry but
nice and soft and squidgy in the middle
so that's ready now we're going to take
it over to the plate now you should have
a hot plate I haven't got a hot plate
here it's very important to have a hot
plate and that's where you need that
liquid egg still there because it's got
to be it'll go on cooking as you fold it
and as you take it to the table on the
hot plate so to serve an omelet you just
flip it over once with your spoon and
then flip it over again as it goes out
onto the plate now that is the very
quickest ready meal you're ever likely
to encounter takes a few seconds to make
an omelet garnish it with some
watercress or parsley I've got here if
you like put a little bit of Parmesan
cheese over and just let me show you
what the omelets like inside nice and
sort of cooked on the outside but very
soft and squidgy on the inside a lovely
light delicious meal taking only moments
you